## Why "use-ui" is born?

Because we want to build great product, with great UI, without struggling so much in the process.

What if the we have something that let us:

> - prototype UI Components in a "playground style" by designers.
> - And later on when we are satisfied about the Components we can "move" the "playground" code in a "safe" place that ensure us good maintenance over time.

> ### Playground
>
> ```javascript
> <Box as="div" border="1px solid" borderColor="primary">
>   <Box as="h2" fontSize="32px" color="primary=>contrastText()">
>     Titolo
>   </Box>
> </Box>
> ```

> ### Development
>
> ```javascript
> const stylesheet = {
>   API: (props) => ({
>     color: props.color || "black",
>     autocenter: props.autocenter || false,
>   }),
>   UI: (_) => ({
>     margin: _.autocenter ? "auto" : undefined,
>     backgroundColor: _.color,
>     fontSize: "lg",
>   }),
> };
>
> const NonSenseUIComponent = (props) => {
>   const [UI, propsCleaned] = useUI(stylesheet, props, []);
>   return <Box {...UI} {...propsCleaned} />;
> };
> ```

In Design and in Development of UI, both think through a some sort of "grid system", so is not true that designers struggles with coders, but is that people speaking two different language can't communicate.

We need a common language, a system to deal with.
The system promise us to take care of implementing the UI code.

This something is our **DESIGN SYSTEM**, which consist of three aspect:

- A Design Based **Style Guide**, the constitution.
- A **UI Component Library**, crafted upon Design Style Guide.
- A **"code process"** that take care of printing our Components UI style

Every product need an own **Style Guide**.
Sometimes two project/product need two different **UI Component Library**.
Always **"code process"** that print style can be shared across products.

This is why, instead of focusing on building a ready-to-use "UI Components Library", our goal is to serve a tool to help you creating your **DESIGN SYSTEM**, customized on your way of thinking, and on project requirements.

Don't scare, it doesn't mean that you'll write tons of lines to make it works, we provide an interpretation ready-to-use to how we think "until now" it's comfortable to work with, and it's customizable.

It's a DESIGN SYSTEM ready-to-use.

In this documentation we start describing the provided DESIGN SYSTEM, and later on [how to customize it to your needs](http://customization)
